## Specification for MOSIP Compliant Biometric Device

### Technical Specification & Compliance


June 2019 | Version: 0.8.4
Status: Draft
### Table of Contents

### Introduction & Background

MOSIP is a not-for-profit organization building an open source foundational identity system. The project aims at providing key components, modules, and functionalities, to help governments and agencies across the globe, to build a robust, scalable and secure platform for foundational identity.
More information on MOSIP can be found here: [www.mosip.io](http://www.mosip.io)

**Objective**
The objective of this specification document is to establish the technical and compliance standards/ protocols that are necessary for a biometric device to be used in MOSIP solutions.

**Target Audience**
This is a biometric device specification document and aims to help the biometric device manufactures, their developers, and their designers in building MOSIP compliant devices.
This document assumes that the readers are familiar with MOSIP registration and authentication services.

**MOSIP Devices**
All devices that collect biometric data for MOSIP should operate within the specification of this document.

### Glossary of Terms
* Device Provider - An entity that manufactures or imports the devices in their name. This entity should have legal rights to obtain an organization level digital certificate from the respective government.
* Foundational Trust Provider - An entity that manufactures the foundation trust module.
Device - A biometric device
* L1 Certified Device / L1 Device - A device certified as capable of performing encryption on the device inside its trusted zone.
* L0 Certified Device / L0 Device - A device certified as one where the encryption is done on the host inside its device driver or the MOSIP device service.
Foundational Trust Provider Certificate - A digital certificate issued to the “Foundational Trust Provider”. This certificate proves that the provider has successfully gone through the required Foundational Trust Provider evaluation. The entity is expected to keep this certificate in secure possession in an HSM. All the individual trust certificates are issued using this certificate as the root. This certificate would be issued  by the respective countries in conjunction with MOSIP.
* Device Provider Certificate - A digital certificate issued to the “Device Provider”. This certificate proves that the provider has been certified for L0/L1 respective compliance. The entity is expected to keep this certificate in secure possession in an HSM. All the individual trust certificates are issued using this certificate as the root. This certificate is issued by the respective countries in conjunction with MOSIP.
* Registration - The process of applying for a Foundational ID.
* KYC - Know Your Customer. The process of providing consent to perform profile verification and update.
* Auth - The process of verifying one’s identity.
* FPS - Frames Per Second

### Device Specification

The MOSIP device specification provides compliance guidelines to devices for them to work with MOSIP. The compliance is based device capability, trust and communication protocols. A MOSIP compliant device would follow the standards established in this document. A certification process will be established against this specification to test and validate the device compliance. The details of each of these are outlined in the subsequent sections.

**Device Capability:**
The MOSIP compliant device is expected to perform the following:
*   Should have the ability to collect one or more biometric
*   Should have the ability to sign the biometric image or template.
*   Should have the ability to protect against injection of biometric

**Base Specifications for Devices:**

1. Fingerprint Capture
<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Factor</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Registration Devices</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Authentication Devices</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Minimum Resolution
   </td>
   <td>> 500 native dpi. Bare minimum recommended. Higher densities are preferred
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Extractor Quality
   </td>
   <td>MINEX compliance
<p>
Number of Minutiae generated by extractor to be in conformance to ISO Specification. Tested for at least 12 Minutiae points generated under test conditions
   </td>
   <td>MINEX compliance
<p>
Number of Minutiae generated by extractor to be in conformance to ISO Specification. Tested for at least 12 Minutiae points generated under test conditions
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>FRR
   </td>
   <td>< 2% FRR in respective country
   </td>
   <td>< 2% FRR in respective country
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>FAR
   </td>
   <td>0.01%
   </td>
   <td>0.01%
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>DPI
   </td>
   <td>500*
   </td>
   <td>500
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Image Specification
   </td>
   <td>ISO 19794-4
   </td>
   <td>ISO 19794-4 and ISO 19794-2
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>ESD
   </td>
   <td>>= 8kv
   </td>
   <td>> 8kv
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>EMC compliance
   </td>
   <td>FCC class A or equivalent
   </td>
   <td>FCC class A or equivalent
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Operating Temperature**
   </td>
   <td>0 - 50 C
   </td>
   <td>-30 -to 50 C
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Liveness detection***
   </td>
   <td>As per IEEE 2790
   </td>
   <td>As per IEEE 2790
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Preview
   </td>
   <td>> 3 FPS Jpeg lossless frames with NFIQ score superimposed
   </td>
   <td> None
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Image Format
   </td>
   <td>JPEG 2000 lossless
   </td>
   <td>JPEG2000 lossless
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>

\* Sufficiency to be validated for registration
** Country to decide based on climate
*** Country to decide on the availability of this feature

1. IRIS Capture
Refer ISO 19796-6:2011 Part 6 Specifications.
<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Factor</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Registration Devices</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Authentication Devices</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Rotation angle
   </td>
   <td>Before compression, the Iris image will have to be pre-processed to calculate rotation angle. Refer section 6.3.1 of ISO 19794-6:2011 for rotation angle calculation for rectilinear images.
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Rotation Uncertainty
   </td>
   <td>Refer ISO 19794-6:2011
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Minimum Diameter
   </td>
   <td>As per ISO 19794-6:2011 medium and higher quality images are only acceptable,. Hence for this Standard, minimum acceptable Iris diameter will be 150 pixels
   </td>
   <td>Same
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Margin
   </td>
   <td>50% left and right of Iris diameter 25% top and bottom of Iris diameter
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Color
   </td>
   <td>The iris images shall be captured and stored in grey scale with pixel depth of 8 bits/pixel.
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Illumination
   </td>
   <td>The eye should be illuminated using infrared or any other source that could produce high quality grayscale image.
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Image Format
   </td>
   <td>JPEG 2000 lossless
   </td>
   <td>JPEG 2000 lossless
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Aspect Ratio
   </td>
   <td>1:1
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Image Quality
   </td>
   <td>76-100
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Operation Temperature*
   </td>
   <td>-30 C to +50 C
   </td>
   <td>-30 C to +50 C
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>EMC compliance
   </td>
   <td>FCC Class A or equivalent
   </td>
   <td>FCC Class A or equivalent
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Preview
   </td>
   <td>> 3 FPS Jpeg lossless frames with NFIQ score superimposed
   </td>
   <td>Not Applicable
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Image Specification
   </td>
   <td>ISO 19794-6
   </td>
   <td>ISO 19794-6
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>ISO Format
   </td>
   <td>K3
   </td>
   <td>K7
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


\* Country to decide based on climate